
• Ran curl -s https://example.com | head -5
  └ (no output)

■ Conversation interrupted - tell the model what to do differently. Something went wrong? Hit `/feedback` to report the
issue.


› Write a 300-word essay about the history of terminal multiplexers, print it in chat.


• ## A Brief History of Terminal Multiplexers

  A terminal multiplexer is a tool that lets one terminal window host many sessions, keeping programs alive even after
  you disconnect. Its history traces back to the late 1980s, when Unix developers were increasingly working over flaky
  serial lines and slow network connections. Losing a connection meant losing an entire editing session, so the idea of
  a persistent, detachable terminal grew out of practical necessity.

  The first major multiplexer was GNU screen, written by Oliver Laumann and released in 1987. Screen pioneered the core
  concepts that still define the category: detachable sessions you can reattach to, multiple virtual windows within one
  terminal, and the ability to share sessions between users. It became a staple of sysadmin life and remains widely used
  today, though its configuration syntax is famously terse and its codebase carries decades of legacy.

  For nearly two decades, screen was the only serious option. Then in 2007, Nicholas Marriott released tmux. Marriott
  built tmux from scratch with a cleaner design: a client-server architecture, a more readable configuration file, and a
  modern command language that supports scripting and precise control. tmux also made pane splitting — dividing one
  screen into resizable regions — a first-class feature, whereas in screen it was bolted on later.

  The community split into two camps: veterans who valued screen's maturity, and newcomers drawn to tmux's clarity. tmux
  won most of the mindshare among developers in the 2010s, especially after pairing tools and terminal "terminal
  emulators" added native tmux integrations.

  Today, multiplexers remain essential in remote work, DevOps, and pair programming. Tools like dtach and built-in
  terminal features in editors have absorbed some of their ideas, but screen and tmux persist — quiet layers between the
  user and the machine, keeping long-running work alive across disconnects, reboots, and decades of changing terminals.


› Find and fix a bug in @filename

  deepseek-v4-flash high · /private/tmp/claude-502/-Users-nova-code-bento-term/d63880ca-01c6-4de7-aae9-4c3bd996d83e/scr…
